# bam_microstim
Adding microstimulation to the Wang 2002 Biophysical Attractor Model of decision-making

## Description of Project Organization
The project is generally run by 4 code scripts:
  1) bam_constants.m defines all the necessary constants, generates connectivities/neuron locations/stimulation conditions for a given simulation.
  2) main.m runs the main simulation program, which simulates leaky-integrate-and-fire dynamics, synaptic currents, task-related currents, background currents, and microstimulation currents for a variety of task conditions (coherences) and microstimulation inputs.  Spike times for each neuron are stored in a containers.map variable called ``recspikes`` in .mat files.
  3) analyze_main.m runs analysis of the raw spike time data to generate data of interest such as accuracy and decision time, and stores them in "decisions.mat" files.
  4)  plot_results.m plots the data generated by analyze_main.m, in a variety of visualizations. each of which calls various functions.

The data is stored in a different folder for each simulation ("Simulation X"), which is determined by the ``sim_name`` variable defined in bam_constants.m.    

## How to use
- Define name of simulation with ``sim_name`` variable in bam_constants.m (ex. "X")
- Adjust parameters as necessary
- Call bam_constants --> saves necessary constants
- Update ``sim_name`` in main.m
- Call main.m --> for each brain/stimulation condition/coherence/trial, saves data in "Simulation X/brainY/data/``stim_amp``nA_*stim_cond*/c=*coherence*/trialZ.mat"
- Update ``sim_name`` in analyze_main.m
- Set ``reconstruct = true`` to reconstruct instaneous population firing rates (``pop_frs``) from spike times (``recspikes``)
- Call analyze_main --> saves analyzed variables in "Simulation X/brainY/data/``stim_amp``nA*stim_cond*/decisions.mat"
- Update ``sim_name`` in plot_results.m
- Uncomment whichever plotting section you want to visualize
- Call plot_results --> visualizes data

## Data Storage
Data is stored in an organized nested folder structure with the following levels
- Simulation name ("Simulation Test"), which contains
    - conductances.mat, which stores matrices with connection conductances for ampa (``AMPA``), gaba (``GABA``), nmda (``NMDA``) synapses
    - bam_constants.mat, which stores a variety of useful constants
    - adja.mat, which stores connection adjacency matrix ``adja``
    - spikes, which contains the task-related and background input spikes for each trial/coherence under
      - c=*coherence* (ex. "c=-1.000")
        - trialX.mat (ex. "trial1.mat")
          - input.mat, which contains a variable with all the input spikes called ``spikes``
    - brainX (ex "brain1"), which contains all the nested data/constants for a given brain
      - r.mat, which stores the locations of each P1 neuron (``ball_r``), and their effective electrical distance (``electric_r``)
      - ustim, which contains the stimulation currents for each of the stimulation condition
        - ``stim_amp``nA*stim_cond*.mat (ex. "-28.0nA_galvanic.mat"), which stores the instantaneous microstimulation current for each neuron (``I_ustim``)
      - data, which contains the data for each trial in a nested structure
        - ``stim_amp``nA_*stim_cond* (ex. "-28.0nA_galvanic") for each stimulation condition
          - decisions.mat, which stores all of the analyzed variables from analyze_main.m
          - c=*coherence* ex. ("c=-1.000") for each coherence
            - trialX.mat (ex. "trial1.mat"), which stores the spike times for each neuron in a containers.map variable (``recspikes``),
                  in which the keys are the neuron number as a string (ex. ``'1'``) and the values are a vector containing the time indices
                  when the neuron fired an action potential (ex. ``t(recspikes('1')) = [0.521, 1.001, 2.325, 2.9, 2.997, 3.053]``).  It also stores the
                  instaneous population firing rates for each neuron (``pop_frs``) after analyze_main.m has been run with ``reconstruct = true``.
                  

## Detailed Description of 4 main scripts and subsidiary functions
### bam_constants.m
  Define constants, input currents, brain architecture, etc.
  #### Simulation Parameters
    Define simulation-wide parameters
    - ``sim_name`` : name of simulation to show up on folder
    - ``sim_path`` : 
    

        
